new: Include a sub-section about building a server image (#18)
canonical/ubuntu-for-jetson: docs/how-to/build-server-image.rst

===================================

Prerequisites
-------------

* `Ubuntu-image`_ must be installed on a build environment running Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa) or newer. It is recommended to use Ubuntu 24.04 (Noble Numbat).

.. _Ubuntu-image: https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-image

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo snap install --classic --channel latest/stable ubuntu-image

Create an image definition file
-------------------------------

An image definition YAML file is required to build a custom Ubuntu Server image. This file specifies the required configurations, such as the ones listed below.

* **class**: Type of image cloud, installer, or preinstalled.
* **kernel**: By default there is just one kernel and defaults to "linux", but through this field there can be specified an alternative kernel to install in the image.
* **gadget**: Boot assets of an image.
* **customization**: Features such as particular snaps and packages that will come installed in the image.
* **artifacts**: Artifacts to create, including (but not limited to) the actual images, and manifest files.

For more details about each field, the `image definition`_ documentation can be consulted.

> .. _image definition: https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-image/blob/main/internal/imagedefinition/README.rst

Reviewer: I think there was a misunderstanding, I suggested to create a new section, something like:

Ubuntu certified Image definition file
------------------------------------------------------

<Your text>

As a reference, here are the image definition files used to generate the Ubuntu Sever images certified by Canonical:

with tabs: link to jammy | link to noble (instead of copy pasting the content of the files)

Author: Sorry about the confusion, I've included the simplified sub section, with the requested links.

> The `ubuntu-images`_ repository serves as the official source for Canonical’s image definitions and scripts. It is used to build various Ubuntu versions and flavors. This includes optimized versions for Jetson Tegra hardware, currently supporting Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish) and 24.04 (Noble Numbat).

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention which image definitions are the correct ones for tegra since we have multiple ones in jammy. The correct ones are `ubuntu-server-tegra-jetson.yaml` in the jammy and noble branches.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I included a new sub-section called _"Ubuntu certified Image definition files"_ with the hyperlinks to the image definition files utilized in the generation of Ubuntu Server images certified by Canonical, what do you think?

.. _build-image:

> Create a custom Ubuntu Server image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a custom Ubuntu Server preinstalled image
```

===================================

Prerequisites
-------------

* `Ubuntu-image`_ must be installed on a build environment running Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa) or newer. It is recommended to use Ubuntu 24.04 (Noble Numbat).

.. _Ubuntu-image: https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-image

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo snap install --classic --channel latest/stable ubuntu-image

Create an image definition file
-------------------------------

> An image definition YAML file is required to build a custom Ubuntu Server image. This file specifies the required configurations, such as the ones listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An image definition file defines, in YAML format, the various configurations required to build a custom Ubuntu image :
```

* **class**: Type of image: cloud, installer or preinstalled.
* **kernel**: This field specifies the kernel for installation in the image. While "linux-nvidia-tegra-jetson" is the standard publicly available version for Tegra platforms, it can be replaced with an alternative kernel, such as one from a PPA, if required.
* **gadget**: Boot assets of an image.
* **customization**: Features such as particular snaps and packages that will come installed in the image.
* **artifacts**: Artifacts to create, including (but not limited to) the actual images, and manifest files.

For more details about each field, the `image definition`_ documentation can be consulted.

.. _image definition: https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-image/blob/main/internal/imagedefinition/README.rst

> The `ubuntu-images`_ repository serves as the official source for Canonical’s image definitions and scripts. It is used to build various Ubuntu versions and flavors. This includes optimized versions for Jetson Tegra hardware, currently supporting Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish) and 24.04 (Noble Numbat).

Reviewer: I would rather move that section under the related paragraph below (right after the paragraph title), and remove the link on "ubuntu-images" (same issue described below)

.. _ubuntu-images: https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-images

Ubuntu certified Image definition files
---------------------------------------

Provided below are the image definition files utilized in the generation of Ubuntu Server images certified by Canonical.

> .. _Certified Ubuntu Server Jammy image definition: https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-images/tree/ubuntu-server-tegra-jetson.yaml?h=jammy

Reviewer: Well... There's a recent issue with git.launchpad.net for external users: https://chat.canonical.com/canonical/pl/5j8es8wt6ig97btshbdaqet7gr
I didn't understand it was managed so brutally.

Consequently, I don't think we should display that link, but instead better provide instructions to clone the GIT repo (same for noble):
```suggestion
.. code-block:: bash
    git clone -b jammy https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-images && cd ubuntu-images
    cat ubuntu-server-tegra-jetson.yaml
```

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo snap install --classic --channel latest/stable ubuntu-image

Create an image definition file
-------------------------------

An image definition file, in YAML format, defines the various configurations required to build a custom Ubuntu image:

* **class**: Defines the type of image, such as `cloud`, `installer` or `preinstalled` (Canonical certified Server images are preinstalled).
* **kernel**: Specifies the preinstalled kernel in the image. The official Ubuntu kernel for Jetson is "linux-nvidia-tegra-jetson", but it can be replaced with an alternative custom kernel, for instance hosted in a PPA for development purpose.
* **gadget**: Boot assets of an image.
* **customization**: Features such as particular snaps and packages that will come installed in the image.
* **artifacts**: Artifacts to create, including (but not limited to) the actual images, and manifest files.

For more details about each field, refer to the `image definition`_ documentation.

.. _image definition: https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-image/blob/main/internal/imagedefinition/README.rst

Ubuntu certified Image definition files
---------------------------------------

> The ubuntu-images repository serves as the official source for Canonical image definitions and scripts. It is used to build various Ubuntu versions and flavors. This includes optimized versions for Jetson Tegra hardware, currently supporting Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish) and 24.04 (Noble Numbat).

Reviewer 3: This implies broader support than we currently have, maybe the wording can be more specific like `Ubuntu 22.04 on Orin and Ubuntu 24.04 on Thor` ?

The following commands allow to check the definition files used to generate the Ubuntu Server image certified by Canonical:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Jammy

      .. code-block:: bash

         git clone -b jammy https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-images
         cd ubuntu-images
         cat ubuntu-server-tegra-jetson.yaml

   .. group-tab:: Noble

      .. code-block:: bash

         git clone -b noble https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-images
         cd ubuntu-images
         cat ubuntu-server-tegra-jetson.yaml

Build the Classic Server image
------------------------------

Once the corresponding image definition file is created, the server image can be built through the following command.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo ubuntu-image classic <image_definition>.yaml --debug

> On the example above, the `--debug`  flag prints additional information about each step executed as part of the image build process, useful to troubleshoot any issues while running the command.

Reviewer 3: We are not native english speakers (which make it weird for us to write and review documentation), but this sounds weird to my ears, feels it misses a verb, wouldn't it be better phrased as following?
```
On the example above, the `--debug`  flag prints additional information about each step executed as part of the image build process, coming in handy to troubleshoot any issues.
```
